#summary ideas to consider when making changes/patches/contributions
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

There're a couple of resources around to ease development: svn, downloads, wiki and group list.

The idea/purpose is to use them in a easy way to examine, follow and understand.

= Rules =

Here is the plan, when a important milestone is reached:

  # [http://code.google.com/p/inferno-ds/source/list [svn]] commit changes to svn *[[NOTE]]*
  # [http://groups.google.com/group/inferno-ds [group list]] write a post describing what's been done, like: Subject "inferno-ds usable on desmume (rev 67)"
  # [http://code.google.com/p/inferno-ds/downloads/ [download]] upload a nds file to the downloads section, like filename: "isds_r67.nds".

*[[NOTE]]*: remember to reference the svn revision number of the changes in the 2) & 3) steps, so the downloads, the group posts and the changes performed to the code can be tracked without confusion.

= Examples =
That's more or less what we've been doing lately, see:

  * http://groups.google.com/group/inferno-ds/t/2053198167d994aa
  * http://groups.google.com/group/inferno-ds/t/aa4a1d6fe7182270

= BUG reports =

Before submitting a bug report take a look at:
``[http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/bugs.html How to Report Bugs Effectively]''
if you're short of time read the '*Summary*' at the bottom of the document.


= emulators =

- use of DS emus, i've used desmume, dsemu & no$gba (which Npe has encouraged me to use),
NOTE that emus don't replace the hardware, but they make the first steps of adding new code
and testing a bit faster, so keep in mind that the purpose is "to go for the real thing" (hardware),
so of course wifi networking would be a big help.

xxx this is in the wrong place.
- related to the wifi, another thing that helps is wifime,
so one doesn't have to copy the programs to the storage card and power up the ds
and launch the nds images, just put the images in a directory and use wifime to made
them reachable through wifi.